---
title: "Linking"
date: 2019-02-11T19:27:37+10:00
weight: 15
---

To link to an entity, use the syntax `[link-text](<> "unique-name")` (a CommonMark link with empty URL and a title of `unique-name`). If you don't want a special `link-text`, this can be shortened to `[unique-name]()` (a CommonMark link with empty URL and the name of an entity as text).
You can also use an URL of the following form `[link-text](standardese://unique-name/ "optional-title")` (a normal CommonMark link with the `standardese://` protocol, the '/' at the end is important).
In either case `standardese` will insert the correct URL by searching for the entity with the given `unique-name`.

The `unique-name` of an entity is the name with all scopes, i.e. `foo::bar::baz`.

* For templates (but not function templates) you need to append all parameters, i.e. `foo<A, B, C>`.

* For functions you need to append the signature (parameter types and cv and ref qualifier), i.e. `func()`, `bar(int,char)` or `type::foo() const &&`. If the signature is `()`, you can omit it.

* For (template) parameters it is of the form `function-unique-name.parameter-name`

* For base classes it is of the form `derived-class::base-class`

The `unique-name` doesn't care about whitespace, so `bar(const char*)`, `bar(const char *)` and `bar (constchar*)` are all the same.
Because it is sometimes long and ugly, you can override the unique name via the `unique_name` command (see below).

> For example you can override `bar(long, list, of, parameters)` to `bar()`.
> But keep in mind that it must be unique with regard to all overloads etc.
> Usually numbering would be a good choice, so `bar() (1)` or similar.

You can also use a short `unique-name` if there aren't multiple entities resolved to the same short name.
The short name is the `unique-name` but without a signature or template parameters, i.e. for `foo<T>::func<U>(int) const`, the short name is `foo::func`.

