---
title: 'Command line'
date: 2019-02-11T19:27:37+10:00
weight: 20
---

The tool uses Boost.ProgramOptions for the options parsing, `--help` gives a good overview.

Basic usage is: `standardese [options] inputs`

The inputs can be both files or directories, in case of directory each file is documented, unless an input option is specified (see below).
The tool will currently generate a corresponding Markdown file with the documentation for each file it gets as input.
Files that are not source files (determined by the `input.source_ext` option), will be treated as template files (see below).

> Note: You only need and should give header files to standardese.
> The source files are unnecessary.

The options listed under "Generic options:" must be given to the commandline.
They include things like getting the version, enabling verbose output (please provide it for issues) or passing an additional configuration file.

The options listed under "Configuration" can be passed both to the commandline and to the config file.
They are subdivided into various sections:

* The `input.*` options are related to the inputs given to the tool.
They can be used to filter, both the files inside a directory and the entities in the source code.

* The `compilation.*` options are related to the compilation of the source.
You can pass macro definitions and include directories as well as a `commands_dir`.
This is a directory where a `compile_commands.json` file is located.
standardese will pass *all* the flags of all files to libclang.

> This has technical reasons because you give header files whereas the compile commands use only source files.

* The `comment.*` options are related to the syntax of the documentation markup.
You can set both the leading character and the name for each command, for example.

* The `template.*` options are related to the syntax of the template markup.
You can set both the delimiters and the name for each command, for example.

* The `output.*` options are related to the output generation.
It contains an option to set the human readable name of a section, for example.

The configuration file you can pass with `--config` uses an INI style syntax, e.g:

```
[compilation]
include_dir=foo/
macro_definition=FOO

[input]
blacklist_namespace=detail
extract_private=true
```


