---
title: "Section"
date: 2019-02-11T19:27:37+10:00
weight: 15
---

A *section* is the basic way of standardese documentation.
It supports all the sections the C++ standard uses, as explained in the example.
Those sections will create a paragraph in the output prefixed with a human readable name.
There are two special sections, `brief` and `details`.
They are not labeled in the output.

Unlike for a *command* text following a *section* is included in the output.
A *section* is active for the rest of the paragraph, a hard line break or until another special command is encountered.
Any `brief` sections will be merged together automatically.

If you don't specify a section for a paragraph, the first paragraph will be implictly `brief`, all others implictly `details`.

```cpp
/// \brief This text is brief.
///
/// This is implictly details.
/// \effects This is effects.
/// This is still effects.
/// \returns This is returns./
/// Due to the hard break this is details again.
///
/// \notes This is notes.
/// \notes This is a different notes.
```

If you have a section with the form `\<section> <arg> - <text>`, it will generate a key value list in the output.
Then you can also add other key-value pairs in each line.
Use `_` as argument for an empty key.
Surround the argument in `[<arg>]` and it will create a link where `<arg>` is also the destination,
i.e. like a regular entity link of the form `[<arg>]()`.

*Note: Due to implementation reason you can't use a real CommonMark link as key.*

The value consists of CommonMark inline formatting until the reset of the section or a new key is encountered.
For example:

```cpp
/// This is documentation text (implictly brief btw).
/// \returns 0 - Everything okay (first key-value pair).
/// 1 - There was an input error (second key-value pair).
/// This is *still* the second key-value pair.
///
/// This is normal text as the paragraph ended.
```

This will generate a list of possible return values in the output.

This is also how the `see` section is intended:

```cpp
/// Some documentation...
/// \see [this_type] - Put a description here (optional)
/// [this_func()] -
/// [std::vector<T>] -
```

It will generate a "See also:" list in the output with links to the entities.

